# my-expense-tracker
The application is built using the Grails framework and uses domain driven design to manage users and their expense transactions. The key components of the system include domain classes for representing data, controllers for handling web requests, services for business logic and GSP views for rendering HTML.

## Tech Stack

- Grails web framework
- H2 in-memory database
- Groovy and GSP (for server-side logic and views)
- Fixer.io API for real-time currency conversion

## How to Run 

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/expense-sheet-system.git
   cd expense-sheet-system
   ```

2. Start the app:
   ```bash
   grails run-app
   ```
   Cleaning it helps a lot

  ```bash
   grails clean
   ```

3. Open your browser and go to:
   ```
   http://localhost:8080
   ```

## Features

- User can enter a name and a starting balance.
- Expenses can be added and are tracked for every user.
- Each transaction deducts from the user's balance.
- USD value for each transaction is shown using live exchange rates from Fixer.io.
- Running balance is displayed per transaction.
- Transactions can be exported to a CSV file, including the USD values.

## Code Structure

- `grails-app/domain/expensesheet/ExpenseUser.groovy`: Stores the user's name and starting balance (ZAR).
- `grails-app/domain/expensesheet/Transaction.groovy`: Stores expense amount, description and timestamps.
- `grails-app/services/expensesheet/CurrencyConversionService.groovy`: Handles ZAR to USD currency conversion using Fixer.io.
- `grails-app/controllers/expensesheet/ExpenseUserController.groovy`: Manages user creation and updates.
- `grails-app/controllers/expensesheet/TransactionController.groovy`: Manages expense entries and CSV export.
- `grails-app/views/`: Contains the user interface (HTML pages generated by GSP).

## Scaling Suggestions

- Use PostgreSQL/MySQL for a more scalable database.
- Add login and authentication support.
- Implement caching for exchange rates using Redis or similar.
- More pagination
- Deploy to cloud services like AWS
- Better handling e.g user makes a transaction that puts their balance in negative, user edits the balance, user makes another     transaction but it stays in the negatives. This must be improved. 
